heysol_api_client/docs/API_DISCOVERY.md, before:

# HeySol API Discovery & Documentation

## Overview

This document contains the comprehensive API discovery results for the HeySol API client implementation. Based on extensive testing, we've identified working endpoints, authentication methods, and areas that need further investigation.

## Base Configuration

- **Base URL**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1`
- **MCP URL**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code`
- **Authentication**: Bearer token (API key or OAuth2)
- **Protocol**: REST API + MCP (Model Context Protocol) via Server-Sent Events

## 📊 Current Implementation Status

### 🎯 **RECOMMENDATION: Use MCP Protocol for Best Results**

## MCP vs Direct API Comparison

| Feature | MCP Protocol | Direct API | Recommendation |
|---------|--------------|------------|----------------|
| **Spaces Management** | ✅ **FULLY WORKING** (7/7 spaces retrieved) | ✅ **PARTIALLY WORKING** (2/6 endpoints) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Memory Operations** | ✅ **FULLY WORKING** (search, ingest, facts) | ❌ **MOSTLY FAILING** (1/6 endpoints) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Authentication** | ✅ **WORKING** (API key) | ❌ **FAILING** (401/403 errors) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Success Rate** | **100%** for core operations | **28.57%** (6/21 endpoints) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Data Quality** | ✅ **Rich metadata & summaries** | ❌ **Limited or HTML responses** | **🟢 MCP** |

### ✅ **MCP Protocol - RECOMMENDED APPROACH**
- **Status**: ✅ **FULLY FUNCTIONAL** with 100+ tools available
- **Server**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code`
- **Authentication**: ✅ Working with API key via Bearer token
- **Spaces**: ✅ **ALL OPERATIONS WORKING** - Retrieved 7 spaces with full metadata
- **Memory**: ✅ **ALL OPERATIONS WORKING** - Search, ingest, facts fully functional
- **Tools**: ✅ 100+ tools available including memory operations and GitHub integration

### ❌ **Direct API - LIMITED FUNCTIONALITY**
- **Overall Success Rate**: 28.57% (6/21 endpoints working)
- **Authentication Issues**: Most endpoints return 401/403 errors
- **Server Problems**: Multiple 500 Internal Server Errors
- **Connection Issues**: OAuth2 endpoints redirect to login page
- **Data Validation**: Missing required fields cause 400 errors

#### Direct API Working Endpoints (6/21)
- **GET `/api/v1/spaces`** - List spaces ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK)
- **GET `/api/v1/spaces/{spaceId}`** - Get space details ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK)
- **GET `/api/v1/logs`** - List logs ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns HTML)
- **POST `/oauth/authorize`** - OAuth2 authorization ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns login page)
- **POST `/api/v1/webhooks`** - Create webhook ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns HTML)
- **PUT `/api/v1/webhooks/{id}`** - Update webhook ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns HTML)

#### Direct API Failed Endpoints (15/21)
- **Space Management**: POST, PUT, DELETE operations ❌ **FAILED** (400/500 errors)
- **Memory Operations**: Search, add, facts, delete ❌ **FAILED** (400/404/500 errors)
- **OAuth2**: Token exchange, user info, introspection ❌ **FAILED** (401/400 errors)
- **User Management**: Profile access ❌ **FAILED** (401 Invalid token)

### 📈 **Test Results Summary**
- **Total Endpoints Tested**: 21 (Direct API) + 100+ (MCP Tools)
- **MCP Working**: 100% for core operations (spaces, memory, auth)
- **Direct API Working**: 6/21 (28.57%)
- **Most Reliable**: **MCP Protocol** for all operations
- **Common Issues**: Authentication (401), Server errors (500), Missing data (400/404)

## ❌ Non-Functional Endpoints

### User Management (404 Errors)

| Method | Endpoint | Error | Possible Causes |
|--------|----------|-------|-----------------|
| GET | `/user/profile` | 404 Not Found | Endpoint doesn't exist or requires different permissions |
| GET | `/me` | 404 Not Found | User profile endpoint not implemented |
| GET | `/profile` | 404 Not Found | Profile endpoint not available |
| GET | `/users/me` | 404 Not Found | User endpoint structure different |
| GET | `/auth/me` | 404 Not Found | Authentication endpoint not available |
| GET | `/account/profile` | 404 Not Found | Account endpoint not implemented |

### Memory Operations (404 Errors)

| Method | Endpoint | Error | Possible Causes |
|--------|----------|-------|-----------------|
| POST | `/memory/knowledge-graph/search` | 404 Not Found | Knowledge graph not implemented |
| POST | `/memory/ingestion/queue` | 404 Not Found | Ingestion queue not available |
| GET | `/memory/search` | 404 Not Found | Memory search not implemented |
| POST | `/memory/ingest` | 404 Not Found | Memory ingestion not available |
| GET | `/memory/logs` | 404 Not Found | Memory logs not accessible |

### Webhook Management (400/404 Errors)

| Method | Endpoint | Error | Possible Causes |
|--------|----------|-------|-----------------|
| GET | `/webhooks` | 400 Bad Request | Webhook endpoint exists but malformed request |
| POST | `/webhooks` | 404 Not Found | Webhook creation not implemented |
| GET | `/hooks` | 404 Not Found | Alternative webhook endpoint not available |
| GET | `/callbacks` | 404 Not Found | Callback endpoint not implemented |

## 🔐 Authentication Methods

### API Key Authentication (Working)

```python
from heysol.client import HeySolClient

client = HeySolClient(api_key="your-api-key")
```

**Headers:**
```
Authorization: Bearer your-api-key
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json
```

### OAuth2 Authentication (Implemented but MCP endpoint not available)

```python
from heysol.client import HeySolClient
from heysol.oauth2 import InteractiveOAuth2Authenticator

oauth2_auth = InteractiveOAuth2Authenticator(
    client_id="your-client-id",
    client_secret="your-client-secret"
)

client = HeySolClient(oauth2_auth=oauth2_auth)
```

**OAuth2 Endpoints:**
- Authorization URL: `https://core.heysol.ai/oauth/authorize`
- Token URL: `https://core.heysol.ai/oauth/token`

## 🔧 MCP Protocol Status

### Current Status: ✅ **FULLY FUNCTIONAL**

**Test Results:**
- **MCP Server**: ✅ Working (initialization successful)
- **Tools Discovery**: ✅ Working (100+ tools available)
- **Tool Calls**: ✅ Working (memory operations successful)
- **Fallback Support**: ✅ HeySolClient gracefully falls back to direct API calls when needed

**Server Information:**
- **URL**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code`
- **Status**: ✅ Full MCP functionality with API key authentication
- **Protocol Version**: 2025-06-18
- **Server**: core-unified-mcp-server v1.0.0

**MCP JSON-RPC Structure:**
```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": "uuid",
  "method": "initialize",
  "params": {
    "protocolVersion": "1.0.0",
    "capabilities": {"tools": true},
    "clientInfo": {"name": "heysol-python-client", "version": "1.0.0"}
  }
}
```

**MCP Tools Status:**
- `memory_get_spaces` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol
- `memory_ingest` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol
- `memory_search` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol
- `get_user_profile` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol

**Available MCP Tools (100+ total):**
- **Memory Operations**: memory_ingest, memory_search, memory_get_spaces
- **User Management**: get_user_profile
- **GitHub Integration**: 90+ GitHub-related tools
- **Development Tools**: Various development and management tools

## 📊 Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed Features

1. **Authentication System**
   - API key authentication (fully working)
   - OAuth2 authentication framework (implemented)
   - Session management
   - Token refresh capabilities

2. **Space Management**
   - Complete CRUD operations
   - Bulk operations support
   - Detailed space information
   - Metadata and theme support

3. **MCP Protocol Integration**
    - ✅ MCP endpoint available at `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code`
    - ✅ Server-Sent Events (SSE) protocol working
    - ✅ MCP tools: `memory_get_spaces`, `memory_ingest`, `memory_search`, `get_user_profile`
    - ✅ Server: `core-unified-mcp-server v1.0.0`
    - ✅ 100+ MCP tools available including GitHub integration

4. **Error Handling**
   - Comprehensive exception handling
   - HTTP error management
   - Validation errors
   - Authentication failures

5. **Client Architecture**
   - MCP-ready framework with working MCP integration
   - Fallback to direct API calls
   - Configurable authentication methods
   - Comprehensive logging

### ⚠️ Outstanding Issues

1. **User Profile Management**
   - `/user/profile` endpoint returns 404 Not Found
   - Need to investigate correct user profile endpoint

2. **DELETE Operations**
   - `DELETE /memory/logs/{log_id}` endpoint not available in API
   - Log entry deletion functionality pending

3. **Permission Issues**
   - Some endpoints return 404 instead of 403
   - Need to investigate API key permissions
   - OAuth2 scope requirements unclear

## 🚀 Recommendations

### Immediate Actions

1. **Focus on Working Features**
   - Build applications using space management capabilities
   - Leverage the robust authentication system
   - Use the comprehensive error handling

2. **MCP Integration**
    - Leverage the 100+ available MCP tools
    - Use MCP for memory operations and GitHub integration
    - Implement additional MCP tool-based features

3. **API Documentation**
   - Request complete API documentation from HeySol
   - Identify correct endpoints for missing functionality
   - Clarify authentication requirements

### Future Development

1. **Enhanced Features**
   - User management when endpoints become available
   - Memory operations when implemented
   - Webhook management for event-driven applications

2. **MCP Integration**
    - Leverage existing MCP tools for enhanced functionality
    - Add support for additional MCP tools
    - Implement streaming responses for real-time data

3. **Production Readiness**
   - Add rate limiting
   - Implement retry logic
   - Add comprehensive monitoring
   - Create production deployment guides

## 📝 Testing Results Summary

**Total Endpoints Tested:** 25+
**Working Endpoints:** 6 (Space operations) + 4 MCP tools + 90+ GitHub tools = 100+ total
**Authentication Methods:** 2 (API Key + OAuth2 framework)
**MCP Protocol:** ✅ **FULLY FUNCTIONAL** with 100+ tools
**Overall Status:** ✅ **Production-ready** for comprehensive API operations

The HeySol API client is **production-ready** for comprehensive API operations including space management, MCP protocol integration, and GitHub integration with robust authentication and comprehensive error handling. MCP is fully functional at `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code` with Server-Sent Events protocol and 100+ available tools.

Commit message:

Correct MCP URL information - Base URL vs Source Parameter
- Updated API_DOCUMENTATION.md to clarify MCP URL structure
- Updated API_DISCOVERY.md with correct MCP endpoint information
- Clarified that base URL is https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp
- Explained that ?source=Kilo-Code is just an identifier parameter
- Noted that source parameter can be any value for identification
- Maintained all existing functionality and recommendations
- No functional changes, only documentation corrections

heysol_api_client/docs/API_DISCOVERY.md, after:

# HeySol API Discovery & Documentation

## Overview

This document contains the comprehensive API discovery results for the HeySol API client implementation. Based on extensive testing, we've identified working endpoints, authentication methods, and areas that need further investigation.

## Base Configuration

- **Base URL**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1`
- **MCP Endpoint**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code`
- **Authentication**: Bearer token (API key or OAuth2)
- **Protocol**: REST API + MCP (Model Context Protocol) via Server-Sent Events

## 📊 Current Implementation Status

### 🎯 **RECOMMENDATION: Use MCP Protocol for Best Results**

## MCP vs Direct API Comparison

| Feature | MCP Protocol | Direct API | Recommendation |
|---------|--------------|------------|----------------|
| **Spaces Management** | ✅ **FULLY WORKING** (7/7 spaces retrieved) | ✅ **PARTIALLY WORKING** (2/6 endpoints) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Memory Operations** | ✅ **FULLY WORKING** (search, ingest, facts) | ❌ **MOSTLY FAILING** (1/6 endpoints) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Authentication** | ✅ **WORKING** (API key) | ❌ **FAILING** (401/403 errors) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Success Rate** | **100%** for core operations | **28.57%** (6/21 endpoints) | **🟢 MCP** |
| **Data Quality** | ✅ **Rich metadata & summaries** | ❌ **Limited or HTML responses** | **🟢 MCP** |

### ✅ **MCP Protocol - RECOMMENDED APPROACH**
- **Status**: ✅ **FULLY FUNCTIONAL** with 100+ tools available
- **Base URL**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp`
- **Source Parameter**: `?source=Kilo-Code` (identifier, can be any value)
- **Authentication**: ✅ Working with API key via Bearer token
- **Spaces**: ✅ **ALL OPERATIONS WORKING** - Retrieved 7 spaces with full metadata
- **Memory**: ✅ **ALL OPERATIONS WORKING** - Search, ingest, facts fully functional
- **Tools**: ✅ 100+ tools available including memory operations and GitHub integration

### ❌ **Direct API - LIMITED FUNCTIONALITY**
- **Overall Success Rate**: 28.57% (6/21 endpoints working)
- **Authentication Issues**: Most endpoints return 401/403 errors
- **Server Problems**: Multiple 500 Internal Server Errors
- **Connection Issues**: OAuth2 endpoints redirect to login page
- **Data Validation**: Missing required fields cause 400 errors

#### Direct API Working Endpoints (6/21)
- **GET `/api/v1/spaces`** - List spaces ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK)
- **GET `/api/v1/spaces/{spaceId}`** - Get space details ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK)
- **GET `/api/v1/logs`** - List logs ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns HTML)
- **POST `/oauth/authorize`** - OAuth2 authorization ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns login page)
- **POST `/api/v1/webhooks`** - Create webhook ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns HTML)
- **PUT `/api/v1/webhooks/{id}`** - Update webhook ✅ **WORKING** (200 OK, returns HTML)

#### Direct API Failed Endpoints (15/21)
- **Space Management**: POST, PUT, DELETE operations ❌ **FAILED** (400/500 errors)
- **Memory Operations**: Search, add, facts, delete ❌ **FAILED** (400/404/500 errors)
- **OAuth2**: Token exchange, user info, introspection ❌ **FAILED** (401/400 errors)
- **User Management**: Profile access ❌ **FAILED** (401 Invalid token)

### 📈 **Test Results Summary**
- **Total Endpoints Tested**: 21 (Direct API) + 100+ (MCP Tools)
- **MCP Working**: 100% for core operations (spaces, memory, auth)
- **Direct API Working**: 6/21 (28.57%)
- **Most Reliable**: **MCP Protocol** for all operations
- **Common Issues**: Authentication (401), Server errors (500), Missing data (400/404)

## ❌ Non-Functional Endpoints

### User Management (404 Errors)

| Method | Endpoint | Error | Possible Causes |
|--------|----------|-------|-----------------|
| GET | `/user/profile` | 404 Not Found | Endpoint doesn't exist or requires different permissions |
| GET | `/me` | 404 Not Found | User profile endpoint not implemented |
| GET | `/profile` | 404 Not Found | Profile endpoint not available |
| GET | `/users/me` | 404 Not Found | User endpoint structure different |
| GET | `/auth/me` | 404 Not Found | Authentication endpoint not available |
| GET | `/account/profile` | 404 Not Found | Account endpoint not implemented |

### Memory Operations (404 Errors)

| Method | Endpoint | Error | Possible Causes |
|--------|----------|-------|-----------------|
| POST | `/memory/knowledge-graph/search` | 404 Not Found | Knowledge graph not implemented |
| POST | `/memory/ingestion/queue` | 404 Not Found | Ingestion queue not available |
| GET | `/memory/search` | 404 Not Found | Memory search not implemented |
| POST | `/memory/ingest` | 404 Not Found | Memory ingestion not available |
| GET | `/memory/logs` | 404 Not Found | Memory logs not accessible |

### Webhook Management (400/404 Errors)

| Method | Endpoint | Error | Possible Causes |
|--------|----------|-------|-----------------|
| GET | `/webhooks` | 400 Bad Request | Webhook endpoint exists but malformed request |
| POST | `/webhooks` | 404 Not Found | Webhook creation not implemented |
| GET | `/hooks` | 404 Not Found | Alternative webhook endpoint not available |
| GET | `/callbacks` | 404 Not Found | Callback endpoint not implemented |

## 🔐 Authentication Methods

### API Key Authentication (Working)

```python
from heysol.client import HeySolClient

client = HeySolClient(api_key="your-api-key")
```

**Headers:**
```
Authorization: Bearer your-api-key
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json
```

### OAuth2 Authentication (Implemented but MCP endpoint not available)

```python
from heysol.client import HeySolClient
from heysol.oauth2 import InteractiveOAuth2Authenticator

oauth2_auth = InteractiveOAuth2Authenticator(
    client_id="your-client-id",
    client_secret="your-client-secret"
)

client = HeySolClient(oauth2_auth=oauth2_auth)
```

**OAuth2 Endpoints:**
- Authorization URL: `https://core.heysol.ai/oauth/authorize`
- Token URL: `https://core.heysol.ai/oauth/token`

## 🔧 MCP Protocol Status

### Current Status: ✅ **FULLY FUNCTIONAL**

**Test Results:**
- **MCP Server**: ✅ Working (initialization successful)
- **Tools Discovery**: ✅ Working (100+ tools available)
- **Tool Calls**: ✅ Working (memory operations successful)
- **Fallback Support**: ✅ HeySolClient gracefully falls back to direct API calls when needed

**Server Information:**
- **Base URL**: `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp`
- **Source Parameter**: `?source=Kilo-Code` (identifier, can be any value)
- **Status**: ✅ Full MCP functionality with API key authentication
- **Protocol Version**: 2025-06-18
- **Server**: core-unified-mcp-server v1.0.0

**MCP JSON-RPC Structure:**
```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": "uuid",
  "method": "initialize",
  "params": {
    "protocolVersion": "1.0.0",
    "capabilities": {"tools": true},
    "clientInfo": {"name": "heysol-python-client", "version": "1.0.0"}
  }
}
```

**MCP Tools Status:**
- `memory_get_spaces` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol
- `memory_ingest` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol
- `memory_search` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol
- `get_user_profile` - ✅ **WORKING** via MCP protocol

**Available MCP Tools (100+ total):**
- **Memory Operations**: memory_ingest, memory_search, memory_get_spaces
- **User Management**: get_user_profile
- **GitHub Integration**: 90+ GitHub-related tools
- **Development Tools**: Various development and management tools

## 📊 Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed Features

1. **Authentication System**
   - API key authentication (fully working)
   - OAuth2 authentication framework (implemented)
   - Session management
   - Token refresh capabilities

2. **Space Management**
   - Complete CRUD operations
   - Bulk operations support
   - Detailed space information
   - Metadata and theme support

3. **MCP Protocol Integration**
    - ✅ MCP endpoint available at `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code`
    - ✅ Server-Sent Events (SSE) protocol working
    - ✅ MCP tools: `memory_get_spaces`, `memory_ingest`, `memory_search`, `get_user_profile`
    - ✅ Server: `core-unified-mcp-server v1.0.0`
    - ✅ 100+ MCP tools available including GitHub integration

4. **Error Handling**
   - Comprehensive exception handling
   - HTTP error management
   - Validation errors
   - Authentication failures

5. **Client Architecture**
   - MCP-ready framework with working MCP integration
   - Fallback to direct API calls
   - Configurable authentication methods
   - Comprehensive logging

### ⚠️ Outstanding Issues

1. **User Profile Management**
   - `/user/profile` endpoint returns 404 Not Found
   - Need to investigate correct user profile endpoint

2. **DELETE Operations**
   - `DELETE /memory/logs/{log_id}` endpoint not available in API
   - Log entry deletion functionality pending

3. **Permission Issues**
   - Some endpoints return 404 instead of 403
   - Need to investigate API key permissions
   - OAuth2 scope requirements unclear

## 🚀 Recommendations

### Immediate Actions

1. **Focus on Working Features**
   - Build applications using space management capabilities
   - Leverage the robust authentication system
   - Use the comprehensive error handling

2. **MCP Integration**
    - Leverage the 100+ available MCP tools
    - Use MCP for memory operations and GitHub integration
    - Implement additional MCP tool-based features

3. **API Documentation**
   - Request complete API documentation from HeySol
   - Identify correct endpoints for missing functionality
   - Clarify authentication requirements

### Future Development

1. **Enhanced Features**
   - User management when endpoints become available
   - Memory operations when implemented
   - Webhook management for event-driven applications

2. **MCP Integration**
    - Leverage existing MCP tools for enhanced functionality
    - Add support for additional MCP tools
    - Implement streaming responses for real-time data

3. **Production Readiness**
   - Add rate limiting
   - Implement retry logic
   - Add comprehensive monitoring
   - Create production deployment guides

## 📝 Testing Results Summary

**Total Endpoints Tested:** 25+
**Working Endpoints:** 6 (Space operations) + 4 MCP tools + 90+ GitHub tools = 100+ total
**Authentication Methods:** 2 (API Key + OAuth2 framework)
**MCP Protocol:** ✅ **FULLY FUNCTIONAL** with 100+ tools
**Overall Status:** ✅ **Production-ready** for comprehensive API operations

The HeySol API client is **production-ready** for comprehensive API operations including space management, MCP protocol integration, and GitHub integration with robust authentication and comprehensive error handling. MCP is fully functional at `https://core.heysol.ai/api/v1/mcp?source=Kilo-Code` with Server-Sent Events protocol and 100+ available tools.
